
Email and Employee enumeration are essential techniques in the reconnaissance.
Gathering accurate information about employee emails and analyzing patterns can:
- Provide insights into an organisations communication
- Help identify potential targets for social engineering 
- Serve as a foundation for later stages of phishing.


### Step-by-Step Guide to Email Reconnaissance as a Hacker
- - - 

*REMEMBER TO KEEP DOCUMENTING EVERYTHING AND ALSO REMEMBER DOCUMENTATION IS 60% OF THE EFFORT.*

#### Step 1: Define Objectives and Scope

The absolute first step is to clarify goals behind the email recon, so that you can search for targets more easily. Understand what scope of individuals are you looking for. What are you planning to do once you have the information.

Also, ensure you are within scope of allowance.

#### Step 2: Research the Target Organization

1. Look through the organisations official website, specially in pages like "About Us", "Team" and "Contact Us", to gather names, roles and any same email addresses.
2. Look for current employees, names and positions on LinkedIn. This information can help to generate email patterns.
3. Sometimes articles or public releases by the organisation contains contact information of an employee or executive. This can once again be used ot hint email pattern.

#### Step 3: Determine the Email Pattern

Use all information collected to determine most likely email pattern.
Now, usually emails follow a certain pattern. Once a pattern is set, usually an organisation's employees adhere to it. These can be:
```
- john.sculley@xyz.com
- j.sculley@xyz.com
- john@xyz.com
- johnsculley@xyz.com
- sculley.john@xyz.com

and several more.
```
Using this format you can also guess out emails of employees of interest.
You are to determine the type.

#### Step 4: Automate Email Collection

Use automatic tools that passively enumerate emails from public sources.
Using tools:
     - theHarvester
     - hunter.io
     - Email-Format.com

#### Step 5: Generate Potential Email Lists

Using all resources, generate an email list.
Also, you are to verify emails.

#### Step 6: Deepen Recon

Use LinkedIn and Github to try to enumerate connection between employees.
Also, try to understand their roles in the organisation and what assets they have access to.