
There are mainly two IP protocols:

1. IPV4
	The IPV4 header layout is as follows:
	
	1. **Version of IP** used. On an IPV4 it is 4 and IPV6 it is 6.
	2. **Header Length** which denotes length of headers from Version of IP to Destination IP Address, which in its standard form is 20 bytes.
	3. **Differentiated Services Field** is the field that actually specifies if any special service like voice-over IP is used or some other protocol is used which then helps to set priorities.
	4. **Total Length** is the total length that includes Header Length + Payload Length
	5. **Identification** is a unique stamp given to a packet which helps it to be identified while it is being routed, however, if proxies, VPNs or IP is NAT'd then this identification can change.
	6. **Flags** denote whether packet is broken and other packets are to arrive
	7. **TTL or Time to Live** is a value that denotes the life of the packet and with every route it's value is dropped and helps you understand how far away the end points are.
	8. **Protocol** tells what kind of data is carried within, which can be TCP, UDP, etc and tells how to decode the next layer protocol.
	9. **Source Address** is where the packet came from.
	10. **Destination Address** is where the packet is going.

IP is end to end protocol, where one station talks from one station to other station and the value of source and destination IP does not change. However, in case of Ethernet MAC will change at each point.

Note: IP won't change unless if proxies, VPNs or IP is NAT'd then this identification can change.