
Before SSL/TLS we need to know:

## **HTTP and why we needed HTTPS**

**HTTP** stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol. It is is used to view webpages on the internet.
So, when you type in google.com, http is automatically prefixed.
This means that you're now using HTTP to retreive the webpage.

In HTTP, all information is sent over the public internet in clear text hence making it vulnerable to hackers.
Hackers can read you packets of the information that's being sent across it.

This is why HTTPS was developed. 
HTTPS stands for Secure HyperText Transfer Protocol. This is HTTP with a scure feature wherein data being transmitted is encrypted hence making it impossible to read.

In this case, if you use HTTPS all your data is transmitted with encryption hence making it impossible to be tapped.

Now,
HTTPS is secure cause it uses one of these protocols:

### 1. SSL

SSL stands for Secure Socket Layer is a protocol that's used to ensure security on the internet. Uses public key encryption to secure data.

When a computer needs to send data over HTTPS to a server, it first requests the server's SSL certificate. This certificate is used to verify the server's authenticity. Once the server sends the certificate to the device, the device checks its validity. 
If the certificate is authenticated, a secure connection is established, and data transmission begins.

### 2. TLS

TLS stands for Transport Layer Security, it is the latest industry standard cryptographic protocol. The successor to SSL.

TLS also authenticates the server, client and encrpyts the data.

A lot of websites use HTTPS by default now automatically.