
Before I even start Information Gathering or any sort of hacking what is this stage even about? Why is it emphasized so much? When is it done?


### What is Reconnaissance?

So, to begin with, Information Gathering or Reconnaissance is the initial phase of hacking wherein you collect as much information as possible about the target with/without direct interaction.
This stage lays out the groundwork for all other stages like Scanning & Enumeration and Exploitation, by building a knowledge base that reveals potential vulnerabilities, configurations and weak spots.

There are 2 forms of Reconnaissance:
1. Passive Reconnaissance
	Gathering information indirectly without interacting with the target's systems to avoid detection. This includes public records, online databases, social media, DNS information and more.

2. Active Reconnaissance
	Gathering information directly by interacting with the target's system yet in a limited way. This includes getting open ports, hosts on a network, OS fingerprinting.



### Why is Reconnaissance even done?

The primary purpose of reconnaissance is to uncover publicly available information about a target such as publicly available data and details that can help a hacker understand the following:
- Target's Network Structure
- Technologies in use
- Potential Attack Surfaces
- Employee or Admin Contacts


### When is Reconnaissance done?

Reconnaissance is done at the very beginning, just as soon as a target has been identified reconnaissance begins. Hackers start with indirect approach that is without interacting with the target, open source information is used to identify crucial information. Once everything that could've been identified in a passive manner has been identified, hackers move to an Active approach. Here, direct interaction with the target is held.


### Why is Reconnaissance important?

Gathering detailed information is crucial because:
- Provides a clear understanding of target before moving onto more intrusive techniques.
- Reveals easy entry points such as misconfigured servers and subdomains.
- Streamlines the Scanning and Enumeration phase by pointing out which systems are worth exploring.







**Lecture:**

Information Gathering is the first step and is the act of gathering data about our target.
Can be any sort of data that can be useful during out attacks.

They can be:

1. Active Information Gathering
	We try to gather as much information about our target as possible while interacting with them.
	It could be a network, website or the entire organization.
	
	We directly get that data from the target by say directly exchanging data via packets by visiting and enumerating their website. It could also mean talking to an employee to social engineer them to give us critical data.
	
	All sorts of actively interacting target to get information counts as active recon.
	The data we obtain here is much more important as compared to passive recon.

2. Passive Information Gathering
	We try to gather as much information about our target using a middle source like a search engine, person, etc without directly interacting with target.
	Like, say we do Google Dorking to get more information about a target. 
	


### What are we searching for?

The most important things we search for are:
- IP Addresses
- Technologies used by target (OS, network, Frameworks used for website, outdated machines, etc)
- Emails
- Phone Numbers