
WHOIS is a tool that helps you look up publicly available information about who owns a certain domain name or even an IP Address. 
You can find all sorts of information like 
- who registered the domain
- when they registered it 
- who is responsible for maintaining it and much more.


### Where does WHOIS gets it data from?

WHOIS gets its data directly from the domain registrars. These are companies that handle domain name registration like GoDaddy, Hostinger, etc.
So, when someone registers a domain name, they provide details about ownership, contact information and more which the registrar then stores.

This data is then automatically added to the public WHOIS database, mkaing it accessible to the public.


### How WHOIS privacy impacts this process?

Many registrars now offer WHOIS privacy services, wherein the registrar hides your personal details and instead shows their own contact information in WHOIS records.

This way the WHOIS database still has ownership data but doesn't publicly display private information.


### What are the fields that I as a hacker will look for?

1. **Registrar**
	- The company that registers the domain like godaddy, namecheap, etc.
	- May help provide insights into ssecurity measures in place and possible social engineering attacks to get access.

2. **Registrant Information**
	- This includes information like:
		1. Name
		2. Organisation
		3. Street Address
		4. City
		5. Postal Codes
		6. Phone Number
		7. Email Addresses
	- All this information is brilliant for Social Engineering Attacks.

3. Admin and Tech Contact Information
	- These fields include contact details for admin and tech points of contact
	- Getting contacts can be used to create a wide picture for OSINT.

4. Important Domain Dates
	- You can retrieve information such as:
		1. Creation Date
		2. Expiration Date
		3. Updated Date

	- A newly created domain could mean weak security since a very fresh domain, while, older domains could have older vulnerable infrastructure.
	- Closer Expiration date can imply attackers can attack abandoned resources.
	- If updated dates are outdated means a lack of attention to security.

5. Name Servers
	- Include the names of Authoritative DNS servers associated with the domain.
	- Name Servers can get you hold of other DNS information, also a weakly set DNS can be prone to DNS takeover.


Using all this information, hackers can plan strong Social Engineering Attacks. Make a detailed plan on how to attack and so on and so forth.



**Lecture:**

