
**DNS** or **Domain Name System** is the phone book of the internet. Just like a phone book translates names into numbers, similarly, *DNS translates names into IP Addresses*.

This makes it easier to access the internet wherein you don't have to sit typing in IP Addresses which can be difficult to remember.

### How DNS Works?

You open your browser and search for a website. Before anything, your **Stub Resolver** will check in your cache, if you've been to that website before, it simply uses it from the cache instead of using the DNS server.

But, if it's your first time, your Stub Resolver will send out a query to a **Recursive DNS Server,** to name a few are:
- Google's Public DNS (8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4)
- Cloudflare DNS (1.1.1.1 and 1.0.0.1)
- OpenDNS by Cisco (208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220)
- Quad9 DNS (9.9.9.9 and 149.112.112.112)
- Yandex DNS (77.88.8.8 and 77.88.8.1)

Let's say we use *Google's DNS server* at *8.8.8.8*, our device's Stub Resolver will say, "Hey Google, I want to go to LinkedIn." Google's DNS will check its cache and if it does have it, it will say "Here you go!".
But if it does not have it, it knows other DNS servers (the DNS Mafia) that do know it, they are called The Root Servers.

Visit this [link](https://www.iana.org/domains/root/servers) to see the 13 Root servers.

So Google reaches out to one of these servers. Here, you'll expect they would know the IP Address of LinkedIn.com right? No, these are the bosses they don't do peasant work. They only know about Top Level Domains(TLD). They have servers under them that handle that specific domain.

So, the TLD will redirect you to a server that hosts top level domains like .com, .net, .org, etc. Then Google DNS sends another request to the TLD. Does he know it? NO! But Google knows that! Google only asks who manages LinkedIn which then returns who manages it. 

Then finally you get to know, they are the Authoritative DNS Servers.

Google then sends one last request to these Authoritative DNS Servers and guess what the last server does. It's got a zone file which contains a bunch of records.
This last server then responds.

Google updates its cache and then sends the request back to us.
This is how DNS works behind the scenes.
