
DNS is often done insecurely. When a DNS server sends a query it sends it in UDP port 53 in clear plain text for all the world to see.
So a hacker would sniff and get in the middle of the traffic and look at everything you're doing, it's called DNS Spoofing.

Along with a hacker who could see it, your ISP does see it.

There are several kinds of DNS attacks. They are:

1. DNS Cache Poisoning/Spoofing
2. DNS Amplification Attacks
3. DNS Tunneling
4. DNS Hijacking
5. DNS Reflection
6. Domain Generation Algorithm(DGA) Attacks
7. DNS Typo Attacks
8. DNS Flood
9. Phantom Domain Attack
10. Random Subdomain Attacks


### 1. DNS Cache Poisoning/Spoofing

A hacker sends a query to a Recursive DNS server which does not know the actual IP since its not in the cache and sends it to the Root Server. Before the root server does all its querying, the hacker floods the Recursive DNS server with response packets with multiple transaction IDs hoping that one of them match the next required transaction ID.

In turn, this saves the wrong IP Address that the hacker sent along with the packet flood he sent earlier. As soon as the transaction ID matches, the malicious IP is stored in the cache of this Recursive DNS Server hence whenever someone say wants to go to Google, they are led to a malware website that the hacker wants to use.


### 2. DNS Amplification Attack

These attacks are DDOS attacks that flood a DNS recursive server pretending to be the victim that the attacker is trying to attack by using the victims IP Address. 

So the hacker will send a huge number of requests to the DNS server which responds with a huge number of responses directed to the victim since his/her source IP Address was used when the attack was done.

This can destroy the servers of the victim, hence, taking their websites down.


### 3. DNS Hijacking Attack

These attacks are where a victims Domain itself is hijacked. The attacker takes control of or manipulates the DNS settings or records of a domain. The primary objective is to redirect the traffic from a legitimate website or domain to a malicious one, or steal information or to distribute malware.

This can be done via:
1. Domain Registrar Hijacking
	By gaining access to the actual domain register or the actual zone file. Once the attacker has control he/she can change the DNS settings and redirect the victim to a place of the hackers choice.

2. Local DNS Hijack or Man in the Middle
	Target a victim's DNS resolver and manipulate DNS responses.


### 4. DNS Reflection

Same as DNS Amplification.


### 5. 